So to do that we use a U-V test pattern which is usually just a checker pattern of some sort and apply
it to our object to test if there's any stretching.
So how do we do that.
Well to do that we need to do two things we need to one apply a material to our object and two we need
to apply or assign a texture to that material.
So to do that while I'm still in the editing screen layout I'm going to go ahead and grab this little
corner tab of this window and drag it down here.
I'm going to create a whole new window and this new window is going to be A.
Ed. I'm going to come down here and select Noad Ed. And this will allow us to see and assign our materials
and textures for our object.
I'm going to press the End key to get rid of this panel here.
All right so many go to object mode for the time being.
And I'm going to press new and I'll call this new material I just created a new material here.
I'm going to call this new material checker.
And there it is.
Now notice that I'm using the cycle's render engine.
There's also the Blendr internal render engine.
But I'm going to use cycle's throughout this entire course.
So if I zoom in here scroll in with the mouse wheel you can see I've got this material output node and
a material node called diffuse SDF.
The next thing I want to do is come down here and create a U-V texture and to do that I'm going to click
New down here.
And I get this new image panel I'll call my texture checker I'm going to leave it at the default size
of 10:24 will talk about resolution sizes here in just a bit but for the generated type instead of blank
I'm going to choose U-V grid and that will generate a black and white checker pattern so that we can
test are you these.
So I'll click OK.
And there is our r checker pattern.
Now the trick is to apply this to our object.
Now if I select my object here and go into edit mode you can see our Uvas are applied kind of over that
checker pattern that checker pattern can now be applied to you to our object.
But we need to assign this texture to this material.
Remember I said textures are assigned to materials and materials are assigned to objects.
So we need to assign a texture to our material so to do that I'm going to click add texture and add
an image texture node and there it is I'm going to just move the mouse around and click and that creates
an image texture node in the node Ed..
So for this image texture node I want to use my checker texture and sense I created it directly down
here if I click on this it'll pull down you can see it's here available to me so I'm going to click
that and then I'm going to take this node here and drag it over to the color channel of my material.
So now I have assigned the image texture to the material but I don't see it over here.
What I need to do now I'm going to tab into object mode is change the way I view this in the 3D viewport
from solid to texture and now I can see my checker pattern on my object.
And one thing that becomes apparent very quickly is that it's stretched.
So let's go back to our U-V editor here.
I'm going to go tab back into edit mode and select all of the faces of of our objects so we can see
the UVA's in our U.V. editor here.
I'm going to slide this over you can slide these over by pressing the middle mouse button clicking and
dragging over and then you can select one of these I've got U-V islands selected that's good some of
us like this.
And I'm going to move it over here.
You can move things over anywhere you want so I'll just hit G and move it over here and click and then
I'll hit the period key on the numpad to frame it up.
So this whole U.V. image editor view is pretty much infinite.
You can have all kinds of things out here all kinds of U-V islands out here that you want to work on.
But in the end you need to move them all back into this zero to one space.
But for now while I'm working I'll just move it out here.
So now I need to figure out how to get these checker patterns from a rectangular shape to squares.
So what I'm going to do is scale this and I want to scale this in the x axis.
Now even though this is called the U-V Ed. And we use you for the horizontal and v for the vertical
we still scale and move in the x and y axis.
So I'm going to press the ESC key press the x key and scale out some and look at what happens on my
3D view as I scale this out.
Those squares are those black and white checkers become more square so I want to scale this out in such
a way that those that Checker pattern is more square than rectangular.
And that's why we're using this test pattern to see this stretching that's happening here.
So I've got that.
Now let's take a look at this down here.
This piece here I'm going to move this out here frame it up and now look at this here.
This looks stretched as well.
So maybe I'll do the same thing press as an X and scale these out until they become Square.
In the 3-D view as well.
So in about the same size do we go.
So now even though they look a little strange here these Uvas now are more appropriately scaled so that
we can get our checker pattern to be square and that's what we want.
The less stretching in the checker pattern the less stretching in our textures.
All right.
So let's now pack this back into the zero to one space so I'll select everything press control a and
then control P and it packs everything into the zero to one space.
So there we are.
That is the U-V map for our first pillar.